Title: Short Essay on Ambition
Category: ENGL1030
Date: 2025-08-05
Author: Emily 
Tags: essay

## Based on the short film DON'T FORGET ABOUT ME directed by Elle Mills.

In an epidemic of people pleasing, DON'T FORGET ABOUT ME (2025), directed by Elle Mills, displays the repercussions of neglecting your own goals and self-worth. It has become common today to believe that the act of people pleasing and consistently helping others will lead them to reciprocate their help and praise when you are in need. DON’T FORGET ABOUT ME follows the main character, Owen Connelly, as the grown-up, jaded version of his former self. He grew up as Magical Matty, granter of all wishes. Although Magical Matty was just a fictional character in a fictional show, it is evident that the character had a mental impact on him as he was always working for other people and always granting other people's wishes. He has transformed from a widely loved child star into a distant figure, removed from the fame that once defined him. By focusing on helping others rather than himself, Owen overlooks the deeper problem of avoiding his personal ambition and fulfillment. He uses selflessness as a way to sidestep the discomfort of pursuing his own goals. Throughout the short film, viewers follow Owen's journey as he reclaims his personal ambition through changes in attitude, emotional metaphors, and the creation of his own list of wishes.

Owen's personal ambition evolves throughout the short film through a shift in his attitude. At first, he appears detached and indifferent, lounging in a chair, eating cereal, and casually joking about being on shrooms. He explains the dark consequences of the list of wishes with unsettling nonchalance. He goes on to explain that if they are not completed in time, "sacrifices will be made and a loved one will disappear" (Elle Mills). Even as the sibling’s debate whether to send him to a psych ward, Owen remains unbothered. His sarcastic remark, "Hey, do you guys wanna get going on this list, or are you just fine with mommy going bye-bye?" shows his lack of care for the wishes he is granting, the siblings, or the acting job the situation is supposed to be (Elle Mills). However, his attitude shifts by the end of the film to be more positive and caring. In the car ride to fulfill the final wish, Owen challenges the siblings to view their bitterness toward their father from a different perspective by asking, "If he gets the chance to start over, shouldn't your mom get that same chance?" (Elle Mills). This moment reflects a deeper change in Owen's mindset and suggests that he is may also be hoping for a chance to start over.

Owen demonstrates growth in personal ambition through the visual metaphor of fog. At the beginning of the short film, he appears in the garage surrounded by purple fog, just like he appeared in the show Magical Matty. As the fog clears, Magical Matty emerges ready to grant Kendall and Jamie's wishes. The fog represents his jaded mindset and tendency to prioritize others over himself. By stepping back into his childhood role at his agent's request, he avoids pursuing his true passion for writing. By the end of the short film, Owen is seen back in the foggy garage, but this time packing up the fog machine for good. Although he had the chance to leave when Kendall asked, "Are you gonna help us or not?" he chose to stay and complete the final wish, no longer treating the experience as an acting job but as a chance for personal growth (Elle Mills). Leaving the fog behind symbolizes Owen's decision to move forward and step away from his past. His journey with Kendall and Jamie helps him to realize the importance of living for himself and finally stepping out of the fog, both literally and emotionally.

Owen's final step toward reclaiming his ambition and letting go of his jaded persona comes at the end of the film when he creates his own wish list. He writes, "1. I wish I was filth rich, 2. I wish I was a successful writer/director, and 3. I wish I could feel as loved now as I did for who I used to be” (Elle Mills). His decision to pursue his own script, revealed in a final phone call with his agent, reflects a shift in mindset that aligns with his second wish. This contrasts with the opening scene, where he agrees to take on an acting job to help Kendall and Jamie, despite acting no longer being his passion. That choice shows he was still putting others before himself. Writing down the list of wishes marks a turning point in Owen's character development. This final step shows that he is no longer neglecting his self-worth by wanting a change for himself.

Owen's focus to help others before himself highlights his struggle to pursue his own ambitions. In the final scene of the short film, there is a voiceover of young Kendall and Jamie reading their original letter back to Owen, saying, "P.S. Have you thought about granting your own wishes? Not sure if that's against the rules, but I think you deserve it" (Elle Mills). Through the change in his attitude from jaded to hopeful, the use of fog as an emotional metaphor, and writing a series of career goals, Owen proves that he deserves to grant his own wishes. As stated in the Harvard Business Review, “People-pleasing is not only what you do, but a strong part of who you believe you are… you need to condition yourself to be less sensitive to other people’s needs and more aware of your own so you can stay in balance” (Saunders). The short film and supporting article serve as an important life lesson for anyone who treats themselves like Owen. It is important to invest in your time and to stop letting other people influence what you do.

Works Cited

Elle Mills. “DON’T FORGET about ME (2025) | a Coming-of-Age Short Film.” YouTube, 12 May 2025, www.youtube.com/watch?v=5zr_9-5Xw9s.

Saunders, Elizabeth Grace. “Stop Being a People-Pleaser.” Harvard Business Review, 30 Oct. 2012, hbr.org/2012/10/stop-being-a-people-pleaser.