Title: Free Tuition for Post-Secondary Education
Category: ENGL1030
Date: 2025-08-08
Author: Emily 
Tags: essay

## Persuasive essay on why free tuition should be government policy in Ontario.

In Canada, the average university student graduates with approximately $28,000 in student loan debt (Siege Media). Many argue that having students take personal responsibility for their education costs will help them develop financial literacy and positively contribute to their credit scores. This view overlooks how the current post-secondary education system drowns thousands of promising students in long-term debt each year. Free tuition for post-secondary education should be government policy in Ontario. Free tuition can be argued by examining the cost of the current system and comparing it with other countries that have implemented free tuition systems.

Free post-secondary tuition should be government policy in Ontario, as it has proven effective in several EU countries. For example, the Danish grant system, known as SU, provides free post-secondary education for students paid for through a progressive tax system. In an article about the Danish education system, students like Strunge Vetter explain, "It ensures that everybody, independently of their financial and socio-economic background, can attend whatever studies they want to attend" (Coe). She goes on to explain that by regulating higher education, the government can better respond to job market needs (Coe). The SU makes education available to everyone, not only the rich. In Canada, many promising and smart students fail to get the opportunity to live up to their potential solely because they cannot afford it. By adopting a similar system, Ontario will have a higher percentage of educated workers and will be able to keep unemployment rates down, doing so. It is evident that Ontario should implement free tuition through provincial grants, as other countries have gained success with students owing nothing after graduation

Free post-secondary tuition should be government policy in Ontario, as the cost of the current system leaves recent graduates with heavy financial burdens. The current tuition model in Ontario is built on driving students into debt and then profiting from their interest payments. As discussed in an article by the Canadian Federation of Students on the regressive nature of tuition fees, University students pay the highest tuition fees with the average cost of an undergraduate program being $7,868 per year and indebted students are worse situated to find meaningful work, start businesses, purchase homes, and begin families (Canadian Federation of Students-Ontario). They go on to explain how, "Ontario spends 0.019% of its GDP to pay for bad debt ... If it were to match that allocation to fund a system of grants for students, the government would eliminate 13.6% of the future debt burden for every student applying for a provincial student loan in Ontario" (Canadian Federation of Students-Ontario). Given the high barrier to entry in education, lower-income students relying on student loans will face higher interest payments than those with the means to pay upfront. This financial burden has prevented the younger population from reaching important milestones and contributing positively to the provincial economy through their low purchasing power and defaulted loans. There are ways to take action for lower-income students, and a grant system could make a significant positive impact on future debt. It is evident that Ontario should implement free tuition as it could eliminate financial burden for incoming students and raise their standard of living.

Education is a human right which everyone should have affordable access to for post-secondary education in Ontario. Comparing Ontario's post-secondary tuition to a similar system in the EU reveals that students will gain better access to education through government grants, thereby giving Ontario a more educated population and decreasing unemployment. By analyzing Ontario's current tuition system, it is evident that tuition has caused a heavier financial burden to lower-income students, costing them money in interest and costing them future life milestones. If Ontarians come together to push the provincial government for free tuition, we can create an educated and debt free population.

Works Cited

Canadian Federation of Students-Ontario. “Free Post-Secondary Education: The Case for Eliminating Tuition Fees.” _Canadian Federation of Students-Ontario_, Dec. 2015, cfsontario.ca/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/Factsheet-FreeEducation.pdf.

Coe, Joshua. “Denmark Pays Students to Go to College. But Free Education Does Have a Price.” _The World from PRX_, 29 Aug. 2023, theworld.org/stories/2023/08/29/us-college-grads-brace-student-loan-repayments-denmark-pays-students-go-college.

Siege Media. “What’s the Average Student Loan Debt in Canada? 19 Staggering Statistics.” _Robertson College_, 5 Feb. 2024, www.robertsoncollege.com/blog/studying-at-robertson/average-student-loan-debt-canada/.